Now we are listing users, but currently listing only the first page.
So we have seen we have multiple pages, so we must be displaying next and previous things to navigate
between these pages.
So adding our next test.
So in this one it displays next page button.
So we will have a button on this list which will indicate there is a next page.
So we are handling the request and.
We are just returning the the first page.
So the page will be zero and the size will be three.
And we wait for UI to be updated.
Then we are going to get the button and we can do the query like this fixture, native element, query
selector.
And we are looking for a button and let's say this is next page button and we expect this page, next
page button to be treated.
So saving this one and moving karma to the front.
So this test is failing.
So let's fix this here.
After the unordered list, let let's add a button.
Is not our button, just a button.
And we are going to have the text like this, like this one.
I'm going to use the greater than sign to indicate the next is on the right.
And I'm going to use the less than side to indicate the left hand side is the previous page.
But since these are greater than and less than signs are are also used in the the tags in the HTML for
escaping those conflicts.
We can go like this and present greater than and semicolon.
So saving this one.
So the test is passing and here we are seeing the button.
Now let's add another test.
Now we are going to add functionality to this one.
So in this test, it requests next page after clicking next page button.
So we are going to click to this button.
But first, I'm just copying the.
The lines from previous test.
So we are returning the first page, then getting the button.
Now we are going to click to this one next page button, click add and this is going to be triggering
the second tab request.
So it's going to be assigned it to another variable here.
Next request, let's say it is next request.
And in this one we can do the assertion based on the page, a parameter we are receiving and we can
do like this expect next request.
And from this one, taking request and taking params.
And from params we are getting page which is going to be two and not two, but one because the first
page has the index zero and the second page as the index one.
So saving this one.
And here in the car window, we see that test is failing because we don't have the second request.
And now let's fix this one.
So we will have a function in user list component.
So whenever we click to the next button, we will handle that event here.
Let's call this one as load next.
So in user list component, whenever we click to this one, we are calling this load next.
And what we will do is we are going to call this user load service.
But at the moment is the user load service is not taking the the page parameter.
So first, let's update this one.
It's going to be taking the page, which is going to be a number type of parameter.
But we are calling this load users in the in this one as well.
But let's make this parameter optional so it will have an initial value if you don't set for it like
this.
So it is initially going to be have the value zero.
And we if we just call it like this, then we don't need to set like page param for this function.
So that's how we take the parameter.
And just like passing the size, we can pass the page in the params object as well.
So we have this function and basically we will repeat the things we are doing in the the initial part,
we are calling this load users, but we need to pass the page this time and we are starting the page
info right here.
So like this page parameter is containing the page index so we can increase it by one and pass it to
the visit as a parameter here.
So we can say this page refers to this one and from that page we take the page property and adding one
to it.
So we are increasing the page number and requesting next page.
Then the response will be received and we will just update the user page, this page with the new data
and that will contain the new page number.
So we are set and let's save these changes.
And here we see the tests are passing and if we test it on browser, let's make sure we open the developer
tools as well.
So in that work tab, just clearing the things and let's click to the next.
So here we are seeing users from user 4 to 6 and in the request we also see the page parameter.
And if I click one more time, we are seeing user seven, eight, nine and we are sending page two and
let's continue until we reached the last page.
And user 25 this is the last page, but we are still showing the the next button here, which does not
make sense because if we click this one, we don't see anything in the next page.
So let's make sure we hide the next button in the last page.
So let's add a test for that one.
And in this test, it does not display next page at last page.
So we are going to again handle the request.
Now, instead of returning the first page, we can return the last page, which means we have three
pages here.
And for the third page, the page index will be two.
So this will return the last page.
And in this one we are just going to query the next page again.
But this time we expect this next page button to be false.
It's not going to be there.
Let's say this one.
And here in the economy output we are seeing this is failing because the button is there.
We tested on browser and the button is always there.
So we are going to show the button conditionally and the condition is we have the, the total pages
in the in the response and also we have this page indicator and we are going to compare them to show
or hide the button.
So let's add them, let's add the view decision logic into the component.
So we will have a function like let's say has next page.
First we will check the values of the page and total pages.
So like let's get them here page and total pages from the page from this page.
So we have the values.
Now the logic is basically if the total pages is greater than page plus one, then that means we have
more pages.
So we are just going to return total pages greater than page plus one.
So in user list component in HTML, we are going to show this button conditionally and we will have
this engine if and it's going to be checking as next page.
So this is the property we are checking to display this button, saving all these changes again.
And the tests are passing and let's test it on browser again.
So we are in the first page.
Clicking next.
Clicking next until we reach to the last one.
So we are listing user 22, 23 and 24 and the next one is the last page clicking it.
And here we are seeing the next button is gone.
So we, we completed the next page implementation and just like this next page button, let's show previous
page button for this one, we will have another button.
And in the test we are right here we are querying the the button.
But now if we add the second button to the layout, then this would break our test for the next page
button.
So let's have a more specific query to get the that get the next page button.
And one thing we can do is we can set a data test ID again, data on test ID and let's say this is next
button.
So we are going to query the the buttons based on this one.
So here we will not just query the button, but we will add the attribute and the attribute will be
the data test ID and the value for that one is going to be next button.
So just copying this query selector part and pasting to the next tests here.
So let's save this one.
And in karma window we see all tests are still passing.
Now we can add our next test and this is for the previous button.
So let's start with the first one.
It does not display previous page button at first page.
So if we are at the first page, then we don't need previous button.
So like just copying this one, copying all the lines from the previous test.
So we are going to return the first page and we are going to look for this time, let's have the test,
the previous button and let's change this variable name to previous page button.
So in the first page we are querying this previous button and we expect it to be false.
So this test is pressing because we don't have this button at all.
Now let's add the next test.
It displays previous page button in page two.
So not in the first page.
But if you go to the second page, we will see the button.
So I'm just copying the lines once again from the previous test.
So we are going to go to second page, page index one and we are creating this previous button and this
time it's going to be 30.
So let's say this one.
So this one is failing.
Let's fix it.
So we will have a presentation logic here as well for the get his previous page, which is basically
if this page page is not zero.
So if we are not in the the zero index, then this means we have option to go back in the pages and
let's open the user component and we will add the second button.
And this is going to be like this, just copying the next button and pasting after that, but let's
have their orders like this.
So before we will have the previous page button.
At the moment we don't have click handler and this is for previous button and this time we will have
the text like this less than sign and previous.
So saving these changes.
The tests are passing and if we check it on browser here after clicking to next, we are seeing the
previous button visible, but at the moment we didn't implement any interaction functionality in this
one.
So let's do that.
So adding the next test it displays previews page after clicking previous page button.
So we will.
But repeat the steps again.
So we have the previous page button and we are going to click to that one previous page button and click.
Then again, we can check the the parameter, the page parameter we are receiving in the FTP testing
controller.
So we will get the, the, let's say.
Let's rename this as previous page request.
So in this one, we are expecting this page to be zero.
We at the index one and when we click the previous, it should be zero.
So this one.
So this is failing.
Just like having this load.
Next we will have just copying this one and we will have these loads previous and when we click the
button we will call this one and it's going to be calling this load users with by subtracting one from
the page and in component template.
Let's add the click listener.
So like here we will call vote previews.
By the way, I'm just going to format this one to to fit all these things into the width like this.
So let's save these changes.
And the tests are passing.
Let's test it on browser as well.
And let's open the console.
So just clearing the network logs, clicking the next.
So we are seeing a request for page one and clicking one more time.
It's going for page two.
Then if I click previous, it's going for page one.
And if I click one more time, we are at first page and we request it for the page zero.
And the previous page button is gone because we are in the first page at the moment.
So the functionality is properly working, but let's refactor our implementation.
So in the component, we are doing the same thing three times.
Like here in the initial part, we are loading users.
Then when we click next, we are loading users once again.
But the only difference is we are passing different parameters, different page numbers in each of these
calls.
So instead of repeating ourselves here, let's have one function only and let's call this one is, let's
say load users and let's make this one to have parameters like it takes page number, which is going
to be number.
And if we don't set for it, it's going to be zero.
So here, instead of having this implementation, we can just call this load users and we don't need
to pass any data because it's going to be having this page number.
And here we can just pass the page number to the load users in the user service.
By the way, if this is getting confusing, we can change the name here.
We can say load data and having the data in this one as well.
So the load data is in the user component and the load users is in the user service.
So we have this function and we don't need this load previous any more.
Now we need to update the template because we were using the load next and previous and we also see
the error here.
We are going to call load data in this one as well, but we are going to pass the the page index and
we can do like this.
We can access to the page here and from that page we can get the page property of it and we can add
one or subtract one to that page.
So for the previous page, we will take the page and subtract one.
And for the next page case we will again take the page and add one to it.
So let's save these changes.
And here in the karma window we are seeing all this are passing.
So with this way we completed the functional part of the page nation and we are able to navigate from
one page to another.
In the next section we will change the styling here and we will complete the user list implementation.